# Why You Should Shoot in 4k LOG.
## By Jessica Weinberg
### Why using 4k LOG is the ideal combination from an editing perspective. Including discussion about digital zoom wiggle room, logarithmic vs flat pixel distribution, and dynamic range.
#### Target audience of those with an interest in post-production and a basic knowledge of video codecs, resolution, and camera sensors.
##### Introduction
As in editor, it is usually ideal to give yourself as many advantages as possible. One such advantage is allowing the footage to be as malleable as possible to give yourself more ability to manipulate it as needed. 4k footage captured in LOG is the ideal configuration for producing the best possible export because it gives you digital zoom capabilities, helps prevserve pixel information, and more dynamic range in a color suite. Let's take a closer look:
##### What is [4k](https://www.pcmag.com/news/what-is-4k-ultra-hd)?
So what does it mean when we talk about shooting in 4k? Well, whenever we capture something with our camera, the footage has a set resolution. These resolution numbers correspond to the number of pixels in the image, meaning that a higher resolution has more pixels. This is important because if we change the size, or aspect ratio, of an image, those with a higher resolution will retain their quality while those with lower resoltuions will quickly beccome pixelated when blown up.

The standard resolution for most modern screens is 1920x1080, or 1080p, and some screens, especially televisions, have a slightly higher resolution of 2560x1440, or 2k. Although there has been an increase in the popularity of 4k monitors in recent years, there is still a general standard of 1080p or 2k on most screens. Therefore, 4k footage if often downsized to a smaller resolution for the final product, allowing the quality standard to remain high for any aspect ratio adjustments.

##### What is [LOG](https://www.videomaker.com/article/c01/19064-how-to-use-log-video-to-gain-more-control-over-your-image#:~:text=still%20the%20same.-,In%20video%2C%20log%20recording%20uses%20a%20logarithmic%20function%20curve%20to,it%20across%20the%20log%20curve.)?
To understand LOG capture, you must first understand how a camera stores its color information. Typically, the information is stored in a linear fashion where the pixels are distributed evenly from the shadows to the highlights. However, when shooting in LOG, the pixel information is stored in a logarithmic fashion, meaning the shadows are boosted up and the haighlights are pulled down, helping them to be preserved. Along with the preservation of color information, a LOG function also more accurately represents the colors that are being captured because they are not top loaded. When we look at the distribution of pixels for a LOG capture on a scope graph such as a waveform, we can see that all of the colors are being preserved in the middle of the color range as compared to a linear capture. This is why shooting LOG is also sometimes called shooting "flat."

##### What are the benefits?
The benefits to shooting in 4k LOG are seen in the details and quality of your images. Having a higher resolution allows us to upscale or downscale our image without worrying that the quality will be compromised. Whereas if one were to shoot in a smaller resolution such as 720p and then upscale it to 2k, it is likely that the image will become pixelated and overall lose some quality because the smaller amount of pixels are being spread to fit a larger area. This ability to upscale or downscale images based on your needs is what is referred to as *Digital Zoom Wiggle Room* and it can also increase the editor's ability to create digital tilts or pans with the footage as well as simply cropping it in. 

When it comes to LOG, the difference is the most clear in the color suite where the images pixels can be redistributed at will. Because the highlights and shadows were preserved, the colorist can then pull them each back up and down respectively. This range from the darkest shadow to the brightest highlight is known as *dynamic range* and using LOG to capture the footage increases an editor's dynamic range.

##### What are the Downsides?
The resource requirements for shooting 4k LOG are a bit more hefty than say linear 1080p. For one, 4k footage requires much more storage space, as the files are much larger. This means that you must have enough computer storage and memory to accomodate the files as well as possibly the GPU capabilities required for editing such large files. Another valuable resource to consider is time. LOG footage does require some amount of post production to look presentable. Realistically, there is not always enough time to spend in the color suite, so in a time crunch it may be better to stick with linearly captured footage. There is also a little more reliance on the production team to do a good job capturing the footage because it can sometimes be hard with LOG to tell on set if the colors and exposure look good for example because the image appears flat on camera.

##### Conclusion
Overall, I believe that the benefits to using 4k Log outweigh the drawbacks. If you are planning of creating something in the near footage, consider using these settings. It may require some extra time and planning, but why sacrifice quality for the purpose of speed. Perhaps as technology continues to advance and 4k becomes more of a standard, higher resolutions such as 8k will become necessary for content creators to begin utilizing. It's hard to say where it might end, so it's on us to try and keep up.
